ENTER THE RECORD POSTING DATE. 

Enter the record posting date, or press the enter key to default to the 
current computer system date. For transaction records, the date should be in 
the range from the start of the current month until one year in the future. 

To enter prior records in the current period, change the date to a day on or 
after the first of the current month. Future transactions may also be recorded
by changing the date to any day within one year after today's date. Records 
which are entered to future dates are automatically reserved until that date 
becomes current. 

Under normal circumstances, records should not be posted for periods previous 
to the current month. However, entering a date prior to the start of the 
current month is permitted on transaction records. In this case, the inventory
transaction is posted and then the record is written directly to the history 
file. Transactions may be reviewed from history but cannot be changed. This 
prior period historical transaction entry provides a means for entering 
inventory starting balances with correct dates for FIFO and anniversary 
calculations when existing accounts are entered into the computer. 

BUILDING LOCATIONS

Location codes are entered by building. Locations cannot be entered for a 
building before the building address record has been entered. 

Each building street address for the warehouse company requires a building 
record in the Addresses file. The warehouse company name and building address 
are printed on the warehouse receipt with the titles "Received By:" and 
"Received At:". Building numbers are required when entering receipts and when 
entering adjustments which create new lot records.

PO_NUMBER, REFERENCE

This the account reference number (purchase order, invoice, or bill of lading 
number) used with this transaction. Entering the reference number allows 
receipts, shipments, and adjustments to be tracked by the account's order 
numbering scheme as well as the order numbers generated in WARES. 

When entering inventory adjustments, this reference number might refer to a 
physical inventory form or an adjustment memo from the account. If the 
adjustment represents a physical transfer or correction within the warehouse, 
the reference number should be the transaction number for the lot being 
adjusted. 

Account release numbers, carrier PRO numbers, or other reference numbers may 
be entered in the following reference field. 
---
The shipper reference number defaults to the purchase order reference number 
from the account master record when an account PO number exists. 

Enter the carrier's freight or PRO number, or enter a supplier reference 
number. When accounts receive goods at the warehouse from their suppliers, 
the supplier may provide a reference number for the shipment. The shipper 
reference number is the invoice, purchase order, or bill of lading number used
by the shipment supplier. 

For shipment orders, enter the carrier's PRO number, the shipper's number, or 
the account release number here. Entering the reference number allows 
receipts and shipments to be traced back to the account's reference numbers 
as well as the numbers generated in WARES. 

VEHICLE

This is the serial number of the trailer, rail car, vessel, or freight 
container used for this shipment. The tractor number may also be entered here,
as well as car seal numbers or other tracking information. If the carrier's 
alpha code is not tracked in the carrier table, enter the carrier's alpha code
or carrier name here. 

RECEIVING LOT CONTROL

Enter a lot control number, or press 
 
 F2 to select an existing control number for this product. 
 
Press function key 2 [F2] to see a popup list of all active control numbers 
for this product and the storage and weight factors for the lots. The cursor 
will be positioned on the current control number entry when the popup is 
displayed. 
 
Selecting a control number from the popup will force the storage and weight 
factors on this receipt to match the factors previously entered on the lot. If
an existing receipt entry is being corrected and the current transaction line 
is the only receiving transaction on the lot, then the storage and weight 
factors of the lot may be changed on this window. In this case the storage and
weight factors will default to the previous values for these factors. 
 
Entries on the lot control correction window will update the receipt record 
being entered. 

LOT CONTROL NUMBER OPTIONS. 
 
 F2 Selects from a popup list of current/available lots 
 SF6 Searches product lot descriptions for specific text. 
 F3 Within options popup, displays and selects serial numbers. 
 
Shipment and adjustment transactions provide an options popup for selecting 
existing inventory lots. On shipment orders, lot control numbers with 
available quantities of product are displayed in the options popup. This popup
displays automatically after a product identifier is first entered. The 
control number will default to the first lot displayed, which is the earliest 
dated lot. The control number must be selected from the available lots. Once 
the available quantity on a lot is reduced to zero, the lot is removed from 
the available quantity popup. 
 
When product is serialized, the options popup can be used to view or pick the 
serial numbers in the lot. Press function key 3 [F3] to display the serial 
number selection popup. Highlight the desired serial numbers and press [F9] to
select the lot control number and the serial number list. Press escape in the 
popup to cancel the serial selection process. 

LOT CONTROL ON WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS. 
 
Inventory lots are created when new lot control numbers are entered on 
warehouse receipts. Commonly account reference numbers such as lot numbers, 
production numbers, batch numbers, or aging codes are entered as control 
numbers. 
 
If a reference number is not entered, the program generates a default serial 
number representing the day on which the lot was received. Multiple receipts 
of a product entered on the same day are assigned to the same lot when the 
default control numbering is used. A control number entry is required on 
product lines. No control number is entered for comments. 
 
A control number may refer to a single piece, a pallet, or a group of pallets.
When billing must be tracked to the individual piece, a control number must be
assigned for each piece and each piece must be entered on a separate line of 
the receipt. For instance, large equipment is billed individually based on 
storage requirements. Using the serial number of the equipment piece for the 
control number, the account and the warehouse can track inventory and billing 
by the same number. 
 
When pieces in a lot are billed the same but tracked separately, define the 
product to require serial numbers for the storage units, the pieces, or other 
measures as appropriate. Then assign a single control number to each lot that 
is received. Use the serial number entries to track individual units within 
the lot. For example, drums of paint are sequence numbered within each 
production batch by the manufacturer. The manufacturer's batch number is used 
as a lot control number within the warehouse. Each sequence number is tracked 
as a piece serial number within the lot. 

LOT CONTROL ON SHIPMENTS. 
 
Available lots of product are selected for shipment by entering lot control 
numbers on shipment orders. When a product identifier is entered on the 
shipment record, a popup of all available lot control numbers and quantities 
for the product is displayed. The lot control number defaults to the first 
lot in the popup, which is the lot with the earliest date. The control number 
must be selected from the available lots displayed in the popup. 
 
When product is serialized, the options popup can be used to view or pick the 
serial numbers in the lot. Press function key 3 [F3] to display the serial 
number selection popup. Highlight the desired serial numbers and press [F9] to
select the lot control number and the serial number list. Press escape in the 
popup to cancel the serial selection process. 
 
Press function key 2 [F2] to display an options popup showing all lots for the
product with available balances. The text search feature may be used to reduce
the lot control number popup. See the options topic in this set of help 
records for more discussion of text search. 

LOT CONTROL ON ADJUSTMENTS. 
 
Enter an account reference number or control number for this lot. Account 
reference numbers may include lot numbers, production numbers, batch numbers, 
or aging codes. An entry for control number is required on product lines. No 
control number is entered for comments. 
 
For the product being entered, current lot control numbers and the quantities 
available in inventory are displayed in a popup. Press function key 2 [F2] to 
select an existing lot number from the popup. The text search feature may be 
used to reduce the lot control number popup. See the search topic in this set 
of help records for more discussion of text search. 
 
Adjustments may add quantities to either current control numbers or new 
control numbers. Press function key 2 [F2] to display an options popup showing
all current lots for the product including those with zero balance. When 
withdrawing inventory, an existing lot identifier with available quantity must
be entered. Balances less than zero are not permitted. 
 
Adjustments may be used to transfer quantities from one account to another. 
Any new lot control numbers created by an adjustment are assigned to the 
account specified in the adjustment heading. Existing product lots may be 
selected from any account. When an existing lot belongs to an account other 
than the account for this adjustment, a message will prompt to verify that a 
transfer between accounts is intended. 
 
The control number may refer to a single piece, a pallet, or a group of 
pallets. When billing must be tracked to the individual piece, a control 
number must be assigned for each piece and each piece must be entered on a 
separate line of the receipt. For instance, large rolls of paper are weighed 
and billed individually. Using the serial number of the roll for the control 
number, the account and the warehouse can track inventory by the same number. 
 
When pieces in a lot are billed the same but tracked separately, define the 
product to require serial numbers for the storage units, the pieces, or other 
measures as appropriate. Then assign a single control number to each lot that 
is received. Use the serial number entries to track individual units within 
the lot. For example, drums of paint are sequence numbered within each 
production batch by the manufacturer. The manufacturer's batch number is used 
as a lot control number within the warehouse. Each sequence number is tracked 
as a piece serial number within the lot. 

LOT CONTROL DATES AND DATE CODES
 
On warehouse receipts, the program generates a default control number 
representing the day on which the lot was received if a reference number is 
not entered. By default, all quantities of the same product received on the 
same day are given the same lot control number. 
 
Lot control numbers may be prefixed and/or suffixed with origination date 
codes and expiration date codes respectively. Date codes are separated from 
the control number with a hyphen (-). When an origination date code is entered
followed by a hyphen, the default control number will be appended to the entry
following the hyphen; expiration date codes entered following a hyphen will 
cause the default control number to be inserted before the hyphen. Entering 
origination and expiration codes separated by two hyphens will cause the 
control number default value to be inserted between the hyphens. 
 
For example, the entry "09/01/92-" would be converted to "09.01.92-XXXX" where
"XXXX" represents the control number default value. Similarly, "-090192" would
be converted to "XXXX-090192", and "9/1--12/1" would become "9.1-XXXX-12.1". 
Also notice that slashes (/) are converted to periods (.) and plus signs and 
asterisks (+ and *) are converted to hyphens (-). This enhances numeric keypad
use during control number entry. 
 
When products are dated by receipt, lot dates are not required. If the product
is dated by origination (the product's date lot code indicates origination 
dating), the origination date will be required. Similarly, expiration-dated 
products will require expiration dates. 
 
Coded dates are validated and converted during control number entry according 
to the conversion defined by the product's date coding method. If no date code
method is specified then open dating is assumed. That is, dates should be 
entered in MM/DD/YY format. Note that open dates are used in the example 
above. The control number is maintained as entered, and the converted dates 
are not displayed. 
 
A control number for automotive batteries might be "A1-41356-1E", for example.
The date coding method for this product would be "BA" to indicate the date 
code conversion method for automotive batteries. During entry, the first part 
of the control number, "A1", would be converted to the origination date 
"01/01/91". The following number is the actual control number, and the final 
code, "1E", represents the expiration date "05/01/91". If this product uses 
expiration lot dating, the detail lot for this control number would be dated 
"05/01/91". 

CONTROL NUMBER ENTRY KEYS. 
 
Control numbers are commonly entered on the numeric key pad. To make numeric 
key pad entry easier and more reliable, certain keys are automatically 
converted to other characters in control numbers. The slash (/) character is 
converted to the period (.), and times (*) and plus (+) characters are 
converted to hyphens (-). Spaces are converted to underscore (_) characters. 
 
This means that slashes (/), asterisks (*), plus signs (+), and spaces ( ) are
not permitted in control numbers. Also, open dates, which are commonly entered
in MM/DD/YY format, will be changed to display as MM.DD.YY. When open dates 
are used the control number entry may be quite long. To shorten the entry, 
either omit the year or omit the delimiters. For example, enter either "4.28" 
or "042892" to represent "04/28/92". 

